# EmbeddedC_TI_SimpleLink
The repository features an embedded software project written in C that features the TI SimpleLink Wifi CC3220S wireless microcontroller LaunchPad Development Kit

The project consisted of programming thermostat with 2 GPIO buttons for input, a temperature sensor, and one red LED used as a heat indicator. The project consisted of using I2C communication protocol for sending information from the temperature sensor to the microcontroller, using UART communication to send information from the device to an external server via USB port, and a timer to poll all of the programmed tasks. The objective of the program was to implement a task scheduler to check each button every 200 ms, read the room temperature every 500 ms, and update the LED when certain conditions were met. The buttons controlled the temperature setpoint. The right button increased the setpoint, and the left button decreased the setpoint. When the setpoint was greater than the temperature, the LED would turn on. When the setpoint was less than or equal to the temperature, the LED would turn off. The LED function served as a heat indicator. 

I believe I wrote the code of the program in a very simple and clean manner. The code was clean, organized, and modular. I believe I used simple naming conventions and provided adequate comments to explain the program's functionality. My code organization enabled reusability through code modularity. I took advantage of global variables and created custom functions for implementation into the task scheduler and state machine constructs. Additionally, I performed frequent testing and debugging to ensure that the program functioned exactly according to the specifications. 

Areas of improvement I believe that I need to work on is getting design right from the start. This includes proper functional decomposition followed by proper graphical modeling to ensure that the design matches specifications. This took me over a week trying to get right as I was working on the project, both revisiting and refactoring the code. 

The skills from this project that will be particularly transferable to other projects and course work is designing state machines and task scheduler code for development of software that depends on a system's timer. Another skill that I developed in this course is understanding how the software works with the hardware. I also learned about embedded hardware communication protocols. I believe this class reinforced design principles and best practices. I believe this class also enhanced my debugging skills because I had to do so much of it within the class. 
